 OAK-D Pro Overview Hardware Software Cloud Search... Press "f" to search Overview Getting Started Platform RVC Features Depth Deployment Camera Sensors Environmental Specifications Comparisons Status Light Switch to navigation View as Markdown OAK-D Pro Shop Datasheet Auto Focus Fixed Focus Fixed Focus OV9782 Based on RVC2 Connection USB 2/3 (up to 10 Gbps) Dot projector Yes Infrared Yes IMU Yes Sensor 1, 3 - OV9282 Type Monochrome DFOV / HFOV / VFOV 89.5° / 80° / 55° Size 1/4 Shutter Type Global Focus Fixed Sensor 2 - IMX378 Type Color DFOV / HFOV / VFOV 78° / 66° / 54° Size 1/2.3 Shutter Type Rolling Focus Auto Stereo IR Projector Looking for more details? Visit specific features at Platform -> Features RVC2 inside This OAK device is built on top of the RVC2 architecture, with main features being: 4 TOPS of processing power (1.4 TOPS for AI) - RVC2 NN Performance Run any AI model , even custom-architectured/built ones - models need to be converted . Encoding : H.264, H.265, MJPEG - 4K/30FPS, 1080P/60FPS Computer vision : warp/dewarp, resize, crop via ImageManip node, edge detection , feature tracking . You can also run custom CV functions Stereo depth perception with filtering, post-processing , RGB-depth alignment , and high configurability Object tracking : 2D and 3D tracking with ObjectTracker node On-device programming : Run custom logic/tasks on-device ( guide ) Stereo depth perception This OAK camera has a baseline of 75cm - the distance between the left and the right stereo camera. Minimal and maximal depth perception (MinZ and MaxZ) depends on camera FOV, resolution, and baseline - more information here . Ideal range : ~80cm - 12m MinZ : ~20cm (400P + extended disp ), ~40cm (400P OR 800P + extended ), ~80cm (800P) Median depth accuracy (See these docs for more info): below 4m: below 2% absolute depth error 4m - 7m: below 4% absolute depth error 7m - 10m: below 6% absolute depth error IR perception The Pro version of this device has notch IR filters at 940nm on the stereo camera pair, which allows both visible light and IR light from illumination LED/laser dot projector to be perceived by the camera. IR Dot Projector IR Illumination LED IR Dot Projector The IR laser dot projector projects many small dots in front of the device, which helps with disparity matching, especially for low-visual-interest surfaces (blank surfaces with little to no texture), such as a wall or floor. The technique that we use is called ASV - conventional Active Stereo Vision - as stereo matching is performed on the device the same way as on OAK-D (passive stereo). On the image below there's a blank wall with no texture. Without the dot projector, (passive) depth perception is poor. With the dot projector set to ~200mA, the (active) depth perception looks much better. If you look closely at the bottom left frame, you can see little dots all around the wall. IR Illumination LED Flood IR LED illumination allows perceiving low-light and no-light environments. You can run your AI/CV processes on frames that are illuminated by the IR LED. Note that the color camera doesn't perceive IR light, so you would need to use a mono camera stream for your AI/CV processes. Laser dot projector and flood LED are disabled by default. Getting started You can set IR laser dot projector and illumination LED via the API as below: Python 1 # Either within Script node: 
 2 script = pipeline . create ( dai . node . Script ) 
 3 script . setScript ( """
 4 Device.setIrLaserDotProjectorIntensity(0.5)
 5 Device.setIrFloodLightIntensity(0)
 6 """ ) 
 7 
 8 with dai . Device ( ) as device : 
 9 # Or, using the dai.Device object from the host: 
 10 device . setIrLaserDotProjectorIntensity ( 0.5 ) # in %, from 0 to 1 
 11 device . setIrFloodLightIntensity ( 0.0 ) # in %, from 0 to 1 Dot projector specifications Ams Belago1.1 Dot-Pattern Infrared Illuminator Datasheet Number of dots 4700 HFOI* 50% 78 ± 7% VFOI* 50% 61° ± 7% VSCEL wavelength 940nm Operating temperature 10°C to ~60°C Temperature absolute limits 0°C to ~80°C FOI = Field of illumination . Also note that in the datasheet, HFOI and VFOI are switched, that's because we mount the Belago1.1 rotated as we want greater horizontal field to match field of cameras. Regarding operating temperature; some customers use dot projector even at lower ambient temperatures, but first wait a few minutes for device to heat up (by running AI/CV/stereo depth...) so projector gets to above 0°C. Power consumption Most of the power is consumed by the RVC2 , so the power consumption mostly depends on the workload of the VPU: Base consumption + camera streaming: 2.5W - 3W AI subsystem consumption: Up to 1W Stereo depth pipeline subsystem: Up to 0.5W Video Encoder subsystem: Up to 0.5W To reduce the power consumption, you can reduce FPS of the whole pipeline - that way, subsystems won't be utilized at 100% and will consume less power. You can also decrease power (and brightness) of the illumination LED and dot projector to reduce the overall power consumption of the device. Illumination LED and laser dot projector Power configurable (more power - more brightness): Dot projector (active stereo): Up to 1W Illumination LED (night vision): Up to 1W Pro devices might consume up to 15W of power, so it's recommended to use external 15+W power supply with Y-adapter. IMU This OAK camera has an integrated BNO086, a 9-axis IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit). See IMU node for the API details on how to use it. Operating temperature The ambient operating temperature of RVC2 -based devices is between -20°C and 50°C when fully utilizing the VPU. Similarly to the power consumption , the max operating temperature depends on VPU utilization. The higher the VPU utilization, the more heat the VPU will generate. The RVC2 VPU can continuously operate at 105 °C, after which the depthai library will automatically shut down the device (to avoid chip damage). To find out more, see our Operating temperature documentation. Vibration Testing This OAK device has been tested for vibration tolerance according to the EN 60068-2-6:2008 standard: Vibration Report - Report of the vibration stress tests performed by the SIQ (3rd-party lab) Vibration Results - Results of Camera Focus , Camera Angles , and Stereo Depth Accuracy before and after the vibration stress tests More information can be found at Vibration Tolerance documentation. Similar models OAK-D S2 OAK-D W OAK-D Pro OAK-D Pro W Laser Safety This product is classified as a Class 1 Laser Product under the EN/IEC 60825-1, Edition 3 (2014) internationally. Do not power on the product if any external damage was observed. Do not attempt to open any portion of this laser product. Invisible laser radiation when opened. Avoid direct exposure to the beam. There are no user serviceable parts with this laser product. Modification or service of the stereo module, specifically the infrared projector, may cause the emissions to exceed Class 1. No magnifying optical elements, such as eye loupes and magnifiers, are allowed. Do not try to update camera firmware that is not officially released for specific camera module and revision. U.S. export classification This product is classified as EAR99 under the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR). Luxonis - Robotic vision made simple. LLM? Read llms.txt Subscribe X YouTube LinkedIn GitHub 
 